## Helen weaves a tragedy 3.125-128
τὴν δ’ εὗρ’ ἐν μεγάρῳ· ἡ δὲ μέγαν ἱ̈στὸν ὕφαινε
δίπλακα μαρμαρέην· πολέας δ’ ἐνέπασσεν ἀέθλους
In this scholia, Helen stands in Priam's house weaving what she sees below. There are several factors to consider here. The first is that this act of weaving g provides a rare opportunity for the gaze to thrift. Through weaving what she sees, the Iliad offers a different perspective. To Helen, the battlefield is a a mess and she represents both the surging motion of the armies and the blood and gore through the choice of colors in her weaving. Through her woven narrative, the reader is able to see the battle from a new perspective. Later Helen will hold the narrative under her gaze as she describes to Priam what is happening on the battlefield. Such weaving, according to Susan Edmunds , in "Picturing Homeric Weaving", would not be entrusted to slaves, instead, Helen holds a "wuasi-priestly office".
## Athena and Garments of Power 14.178-181

ἔξυσεν : ** ἐκέρκισεν ξύουσι γὰρ τὴν κρόκην προς τὸ πυκνωθῆναι . οἱ δὲ ἐλέανεν ἀπο μεταφορᾶς τῶν ξύλων· οἱ δὲ ἀντι τοῦ ἔγναψεν μετα τὸ ὑφανθῆναι :
This passage offers valuable information into the construction and use of garments. This passage describes the garment that Hera puts on in order to seduce her husband Zeus. Athena appears indirectly as the creator of this garment, perhaps the finest we see in the Iliad. The technical language here not only describes the garment, but offers information about the goddesses who are involved with it, as creators and wearers. The material of this robe is specified as likely linen, and we get more detail about it than perhaps any other garment, unless we count Achilles' new armor as a garment. She plied the loom with a shuttle, scraping it, to make it close-woven? I think the next sentence is talking about the grinding down of wood? I can't figure out ὑφανθῆναι.
The first word of the scholia is a gloss on the lemma, ἔξυσ',expanding it into ἔξυσεν. This word comes from ξύω, which means to scratch, scrape, or shape by whittling. This is a very weird word. What is Athena doing with wood exactly? The next word, ἐκέρκισεν, I believe means to ply the loom but I couldn't fi the lexicon entry for the verb.
-The orignal word is elided but the lemma is not, suggesting that something has been replaced or changed in the text. 
Modern linen makers refer to the term of scutching, scraping the flax fibers to get rid of the tiny hairs and produce a small high quality fiber. I believe ἔξυσεν refers to this, and the gloss offers an alternate more widly known verb. Glosses are according to Churik a continous commentary on the translation, a metaphrase.  We know the scribe only glosses difficult and unfamiliar words. THere are very few interlinearl scholia in bbok 14, a phenomen known as commentator fatigue. 
There is also an interior scholia, indiciated by a diple. 
ἔξυσεν is equivelent to (rest of scholia) 
ἐκέρκισεν is working with the shuttle
-oti alludes to critical sign
-προς plus infinitive = purpose
οἱ δὲ - but others say
ἔγναψεν-technical term, depilling, getting rid of stray fibers. This term is not in the LSJ.
ἀντι-instead of 
ἐλέανεν -she smoothed, A metaphor from woodwork
## Andromache avoids the future 22.44
In this scene, Andromache has closed herself off from the world, but the world still manages to find her. Unlike, Heln, she is not an active participant, weaving what she sees, but rather what shes wish she could see. Her garment, with its symbols of peace and wealth is designed for a world that is very much in danger.  She knows that the Acheaens are at the walls and if they break the walls, her weaving will be futile, but she is so determined to believe that everything is alright that she weaves anyway. Weaving is the normal activtiy expected of her, and she is going to perform that normal activity. She weaves flowers, but the word could also mean charms or drugs. It could be a love charm for her husband.Key langugue is repeated from the Helen scene in book 3, even as the context is very different. Helen and Andromache both set about their work in the same way.. Hector dies before he can ever see this garment though, and he will only feel the touch of the robes the color of royalty in death, in line 24. 796, as his countrymen cover his bones with purple cloth.
# Andromache Continued
weaving sword
## Key Connections
The passages of Helen and Andromache struck me the first time that I read the Iliad. I discovered the Athena passage later, as I became more interested in the technical terms associated with weaving. Helen and Andromache are such different characters, with different desires, but with such compelling similairities that these scenes where they perform this daily work, this ritual, and how they interpet it in their own ways becomes compelling as a revelation of their character. Moreover, these women, while they speak infrequently thave tchance to express themselvest hrough what is not only a practical and valuable household good, but we can consider wa owrk of art. None of them women are making bedsheets or dishrags or ordinary households goods. They are creating something unique, something that narrative recognizes as valuable. We can’t see into the lives of ancient women. The cloth wthat women thousands of years ago, unlike pottery or armor or sculpture fades away with the passage of time. With that women also fade from narratives that are written, as the Iliad was, and composed most likely by groups of  men. The Iliad is considered this poem of manly things, maen's actions, men's choices, and indeed the central characters who drive the plot forward are mostly and we get the most indepth view into their interiority and they difficiult choices they have to make. But in these spearate, yet connected moments we can threads of lives and of storeis that the passage of time and purposeful erasure or thoughtless exlcusion have for the most part taken from us. This is not say that women's work and these stories of Helen, Athena, AND Andromache are only valuable to women readers. They are valuable to everyone . Our culture is so separate from the ancient Greeks, and their culture was separated from the mythological epics they constructed that instead of them simply influencing our ideas and our culture we impose our cultural ideas on them. Snd one consistent cultural practice is the exclusion of women, and so these scenes are important in allowing us a more complex view of the ancient world, of their stories, of ourselves and like in liberatory reading practices what we might think and how might apply our knowledge in the future.

